When sending Ethereum transactions,
you're asking the network to execute code that sends ether to another account.
Nodes execute this code in the network.
Miners get paid fees using what's known as gas.
In this video, we'll go over what gas is,
how it's related to ether and how it helps facilitate transactions.
To start, keep in mind that the lifecycle of
an Ethereum transaction is not much different than that of a Bitcoin transaction.
In Bitcoin, there are Bitcoin transaction fees.
In Ethereum that process is similar and uses gas.
The reason this is similar is because both ethereum
and bitcoin currently use the proof-of-work algorithm.
When using this algorithm,
the miners need this incentive to pick up the work.
So, that's simple enough.
Ethereum pays gas to minors for executing code on the smart contracts you create.
What gets sort of confusing is when you think why don't we just use ether for that?
Well, we actually do pay them in ether.
This is where it's important to understand the distinction between ether and gas.
Gas accounts for the cost of executing the transactions in the first place.
In your contract, every time you add, subtract,
multiply or divide, that adds to the total amount of gas that the transaction will cost.
It's not the actual currency used for payments.
Once the contract runs,
the sum of these fees gets converted to its equal value in ether.
Miners receive this ether which does have real-world value.
As a quick analogy,
you can think of this like how gas works in a car.
Gas is important because it's required for your car to function.
The problem is you can't actually go buy food with the gas from your car.
You will need to convert this gas into money by selling
it and then use this money to buy whatever else you want.
That's a bit strange, since no one really sells their cars gas,
but it's very similar to what happens in ethereum.
In ethereum, gas accounts for the total cost of executing operations on the contract.
Once completed, ethereum converts this gas into its value in
ether and this ether goes to the node that executed the transaction.
When you hear the word gas,
people are usually referring to one of two things,
the gas price or the gas limit.
In the last section, you saw that both of
these terms are included in the fields of a transaction.
Now that we have a better idea of what gas is,
we can go over these in a little more detail.
First, the gas price is the price per unit of gas that
you're willing to pay for executing the code in your smart contract.
This field is how you can incentivize workers to pick up your transaction.
An important thing to note here is that the same amount of
gas will be used regardless of what you're willing to pay.
What this price specifies is how much you're willing to pay for each unit of gas.
A low gas price will be cheap but it's less likely that a miner would pick up this work.
A high gas price is more likely to get picked up but can get
very expensive if you want to execute this code many times.
Finding a gas price that is both affordable and
effective is a balance you'll need to consider when determining the gas price.
It's not an exact relationship like shown here,
but hopefully this graph helps get the point across.
Gas limit is the maximum amount of
gas a sender is willing to pay for a given transaction.
Setting this limit is important for a few reasons.
One, it allows you to work within a budget that you're comfortable with.
It also safeguards you from potential errors in the contract.
For example, if there's an infinite loop in your code,
that's bad enough already.
With ethereum, you'll also lose gas for each time this loop executes.
This can add up pretty quickly,
and by setting a limit you can ensure things stay within your budget.
If you don't include enough gas in the gas limit to
execute the required code, you'll get an error.
In this case, you've both spent money for
the gas and you don't have the output you wanted.
It's sort of like filling the tank of
your car halfway and then getting stranded on the highway.
You didn't get to where you wanted and you still wasted gas.
However, it's fine to specify a higher gas limit.
In this case, the unused gas will be returned after the contract executes.
So that wraps up this intro to how gas works in ethereum.
For now, the important thing to understand is what gas is,
when it's used, and a few basic terms that we went over.
Later on, you'll build contracts that have these operations and run using gas.
Using some helpful Developer Tools,
you'll be able to run tests and estimate the gas usage for your contracts.